README.md, before:

<a href="https://novel.sh">
  <img alt="Novel is a Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions." src="https://novel.sh/opengraph-image.png">
  <h1 align="center">Novel</h1>
</a>

<p align="center">
  An open-source Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions. 
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36360789"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacker%20News-369-%23FF6600" alt="Hacker News"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/steven-tey/novel?label=license&logo=github&color=f80&logoColor=fff" alt="License" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/steven-tey/novel?style=social" alt="Novel.sh's GitHub repo"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#introduction"><strong>Introduction</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#installation"><strong>Installation</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-your-own"><strong>Deploy Your Own</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#setting-up-locally"><strong>Setting Up Locally</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#tech-stack"><strong>Tech Stack</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#contributing"><strong>Contributing</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#license"><strong>License</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Introduction

[Novel](https://novel.sh/) is a Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions.

https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/assets/28986134/2099877f-4f2b-4b1c-8782-5d803d63be5c

<br />

## Installation

To use Novel in a project, you can run the following command to install the `novel` [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/novel):

```
npm i novel
```

Then, you can use it in your code like this:

```jsx
import { Editor } from "novel";

export default function App() {
  return <Editor />;
}
```

The `Editor` is a React component that takes in the following props:

| Prop                  | Type                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `completionApi`       | `string`                    | The API route to use for the OpenAI completion API.                                                                                                                                        | `/api/generate`                                                                                                                     |
| `className`           | `string`                    | Editor container classname.                                                                                                                                                                | `"relative min-h-[500px] w-full max-w-screen-lg border-stone-200 bg-white sm:mb-[calc(20vh)] sm:rounded-lg sm:border sm:shadow-lg"` |
| `defaultValue`        | `JSONContent` or `string`   | The default value to use for the editor.                                                                                                                                                   | [`defaultEditorContent`](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/default-content.tsx)             |
| `extensions`          | `Extension[]`               | A list of extensions to use for the editor, in addition to the [default Novel extensions](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/extensions/index.tsx). | `[]`                                                                                                                                |
| `editorProps`         | `EditorProps`               | Props to pass to the underlying Tiptap editor, in addition to the [default Novel editor props](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/props.ts).        | `{}`                                                                                                                                |
| `onUpdate`            | `(editor?: Editor) => void` | A callback function that is called whenever the editor is updated.                                                                                                                         | `() => {}`                                                                                                                          |
| `onDebouncedUpdate`   | `(editor?: Editor) => void` | A callback function that is called whenever the editor is updated, but only after the defined debounce duration.                                                                           | `() => {}`                                                                                                                          |
| `debounceDuration`    | `number`                    | The duration (in milliseconds) to debounce the `onDebouncedUpdate` callback.                                                                                                               | `750`                                                                                                                               |
| `storageKey`          | `string`                    | The key to use for storing the editor's value in local storage.                                                                                                                            | `novel__content`                                                                                                                    |
| `disableLocalStorage` | `boolean`                   | Enabling this option will prevent read/write content from/to local storage.                                                                                                                | `false`                                                                                                                             |

> **Note**: Make sure to define an API endpoint that matches the `completionApi` prop (default is `/api/generate`). This is needed for the AI autocompletions to work. Here's an example: https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/apps/web/app/api/generate/route.ts

Here's an example application: https://github.com/steven-tey/novella

## Deploy Your Own

You can deploy your own version of Novel to Vercel with one click:

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://stey.me/novel-deploy)

## Setting Up Locally

To set up Novel locally, you'll need to clone the repository and set up the following environment variables:

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` – your OpenAI API key (you can get one [here](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys))
- `BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN` – your Vercel Blob read/write token (currently [still in beta](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/quickstart#quickstart), but feel free to [sign up on this form](https://vercel.fyi/blob-beta) for access)

If you've deployed this to Vercel, you can also use [`vc env pull`](https://vercel.com/docs/cli/env#exporting-development-environment-variables) to pull the environment variables from your Vercel project.

To run the app locally, you can run the following commands:

```
pnpm i
pnpm build
pnpm dev
```

## Cross-framework support

While Novel is built for React, we also have a few community-maintained packages for non-React frameworks:

- Svelte: https://novel.sh/svelte
- Vue: https://novel.sh/vue

## VSCode Extension

Thanks to @bennykok, Novel also has a VSCode Extension: https://novel.sh/vscode

https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/assets/28986134/58ebf7e3-cdb3-43df-878b-119e304f7373

## Tech Stack

Novel is built on the following stack:

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) – framework
- [Tiptap](https://tiptap.dev/) – text editor
- [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) - AI completions
- [Vercel AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs) – AI library
- [Vercel](https://vercel.com) – deployments
- [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) – styles
- [Cal Sans](https://github.com/calcom/font) – font

## Contributing

Here's how you can contribute:

- [Open an issue](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/issues) if you believe you've encountered a bug.
- Make a [pull request](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/pull) to add new features/make quality-of-life improvements/fix bugs.

<a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=steven-tey/novel" />
</a>

## Repo Activity

![Novel.sh repo activity – generated by Axiom](https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/2ebdaa143b0ad6e7c2ee23151da7b37f67da0b36.svg)

## License

Licensed under the [Apache-2.0 license](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

explain why I started this repo

README.md, after:

# Michael's notes

10 Jan - I created this repo to try out Novel. It could be the basis for the AI Create rework. I want to have a rich text editor, so it feels like more like a proper text editor that users can write long-form documents in. I found TipTap, which seems to be a good and extensible foundation for rich text editing. But it doesn't come with a UI. I was looking for a Notion-like interface, since I like their AI writing UX. And also WriteSonic's interface is Notion-like. So I then found Novel, which is open-source and provides a UI very similar to what I want. They also already have AI-powered autocompletions. Therefore, I decided to investigate this repo by trying to modify it to see if it can do what I need it to do.

There are several reasons why I took this approach:
- TipTap seems like a good foundation for rich text editing, so I'm pretty sure I want to use that
- Novel provides a UI that is close to the Notion-like UI that I want: text is in blocks; user can execute commands from an empty block, slash command, or selecting text ("bubble menu").
- Novel also has an AI integration that I can learn from

My goal is to not touch the UI for now, only modify/add the AI features I need. I'm hoping the UI will be good enough for our purposes.


# stuff from original Novel repo

<a href="https://novel.sh">
  <img alt="Novel is a Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions." src="https://novel.sh/opengraph-image.png">
  <h1 align="center">Novel</h1>
</a>

<p align="center">
  An open-source Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions. 
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36360789"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacker%20News-369-%23FF6600" alt="Hacker News"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/steven-tey/novel?label=license&logo=github&color=f80&logoColor=fff" alt="License" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/steven-tey/novel?style=social" alt="Novel.sh's GitHub repo"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#introduction"><strong>Introduction</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#installation"><strong>Installation</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-your-own"><strong>Deploy Your Own</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#setting-up-locally"><strong>Setting Up Locally</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#tech-stack"><strong>Tech Stack</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#contributing"><strong>Contributing</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#license"><strong>License</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Introduction

[Novel](https://novel.sh/) is a Notion-style WYSIWYG editor with AI-powered autocompletions.

https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/assets/28986134/2099877f-4f2b-4b1c-8782-5d803d63be5c

<br />

## Installation

To use Novel in a project, you can run the following command to install the `novel` [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/novel):

```
npm i novel
```

Then, you can use it in your code like this:

```jsx
import { Editor } from "novel";

export default function App() {
  return <Editor />;
}
```

The `Editor` is a React component that takes in the following props:

| Prop                  | Type                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `completionApi`       | `string`                    | The API route to use for the OpenAI completion API.                                                                                                                                        | `/api/generate`                                                                                                                     |
| `className`           | `string`                    | Editor container classname.                                                                                                                                                                | `"relative min-h-[500px] w-full max-w-screen-lg border-stone-200 bg-white sm:mb-[calc(20vh)] sm:rounded-lg sm:border sm:shadow-lg"` |
| `defaultValue`        | `JSONContent` or `string`   | The default value to use for the editor.                                                                                                                                                   | [`defaultEditorContent`](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/default-content.tsx)             |
| `extensions`          | `Extension[]`               | A list of extensions to use for the editor, in addition to the [default Novel extensions](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/extensions/index.tsx). | `[]`                                                                                                                                |
| `editorProps`         | `EditorProps`               | Props to pass to the underlying Tiptap editor, in addition to the [default Novel editor props](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/packages/core/src/ui/editor/props.ts).        | `{}`                                                                                                                                |
| `onUpdate`            | `(editor?: Editor) => void` | A callback function that is called whenever the editor is updated.                                                                                                                         | `() => {}`                                                                                                                          |
| `onDebouncedUpdate`   | `(editor?: Editor) => void` | A callback function that is called whenever the editor is updated, but only after the defined debounce duration.                                                                           | `() => {}`                                                                                                                          |
| `debounceDuration`    | `number`                    | The duration (in milliseconds) to debounce the `onDebouncedUpdate` callback.                                                                                                               | `750`                                                                                                                               |
| `storageKey`          | `string`                    | The key to use for storing the editor's value in local storage.                                                                                                                            | `novel__content`                                                                                                                    |
| `disableLocalStorage` | `boolean`                   | Enabling this option will prevent read/write content from/to local storage.                                                                                                                | `false`                                                                                                                             |

> **Note**: Make sure to define an API endpoint that matches the `completionApi` prop (default is `/api/generate`). This is needed for the AI autocompletions to work. Here's an example: https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/apps/web/app/api/generate/route.ts

Here's an example application: https://github.com/steven-tey/novella

## Deploy Your Own

You can deploy your own version of Novel to Vercel with one click:

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://stey.me/novel-deploy)

## Setting Up Locally

To set up Novel locally, you'll need to clone the repository and set up the following environment variables:

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` – your OpenAI API key (you can get one [here](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys))
- `BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN` – your Vercel Blob read/write token (currently [still in beta](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/quickstart#quickstart), but feel free to [sign up on this form](https://vercel.fyi/blob-beta) for access)

If you've deployed this to Vercel, you can also use [`vc env pull`](https://vercel.com/docs/cli/env#exporting-development-environment-variables) to pull the environment variables from your Vercel project.

To run the app locally, you can run the following commands:

```
pnpm i
pnpm build
pnpm dev
```

## Cross-framework support

While Novel is built for React, we also have a few community-maintained packages for non-React frameworks:

- Svelte: https://novel.sh/svelte
- Vue: https://novel.sh/vue

## VSCode Extension

Thanks to @bennykok, Novel also has a VSCode Extension: https://novel.sh/vscode

https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/assets/28986134/58ebf7e3-cdb3-43df-878b-119e304f7373

## Tech Stack

Novel is built on the following stack:

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) – framework
- [Tiptap](https://tiptap.dev/) – text editor
- [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) - AI completions
- [Vercel AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs) – AI library
- [Vercel](https://vercel.com) – deployments
- [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) – styles
- [Cal Sans](https://github.com/calcom/font) – font

## Contributing

Here's how you can contribute:

- [Open an issue](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/issues) if you believe you've encountered a bug.
- Make a [pull request](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/pull) to add new features/make quality-of-life improvements/fix bugs.

<a href="https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=steven-tey/novel" />
</a>

## Repo Activity

![Novel.sh repo activity – generated by Axiom](https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/2ebdaa143b0ad6e7c2ee23151da7b37f67da0b36.svg)

## License

Licensed under the [Apache-2.0 license](https://github.com/steven-tey/novel/blob/main/LICENSE.md).
